################################################################
#
# Disclaimer/License
# This rule file ist (c) by Ingolf Jandt <i.jandt@web.de>
#  
# Redistribute it; change it according to your needs.
#
################################################################
#
#  2,5 Pfennige ganztags sind heute Standard für byCall-
#  Verbindungen in Deutschland. Darum dieser Rule-Datei.
#
################################################################

################################################################
#
# NAME OF THE RULESET.
#
################################################################
name=2,5 Pf ganztags, 1-min-Takt

################################################################
# currency settings
################################################################

# currency symbol (default is "$")
currency_symbol=DM

# currency position (default is "right")
currency_position=right 

# Define the number of significant digits.
# (not absolutely needed, default is "2")
currency_digits=2

################################################################
# connection settings
################################################################

# NOTE: rules are applied from top to bottom - the
#       LAST matching rule is the one used for the
#       cost computations.

# This is charged whenever you connect. 
# Uncomment it if needed.
# per_connection=0.0

# Minimum costs per per connection. If the costs of a phone
# call are less than this value, this value is used instead
# minimum_costs=0.0

# The first minute is always fully billed.
# This rule will take priority during the first 60 seconds
# over any other rule, in particular the 'default' rule.
flat_init_costs=(0.025,60)

# This is the default rule which is used when no other rule
# applies. The following rule means: "Every 60 seconds 0.025 
# DM are added to the bill"
default=(0.025, 60)
